Let's set the stage for the activities that are conducted
prior to the real guts of the meeting.
Begin on time, no matter what.
Set the precedence.
If you start late, they will learn that that is okay and come late,
so never start late.
Welcome everyone.
People want and need to feel good and included in the process.
Like with presentations, as the meeting leader,
all eyes are on you; you are the focus or even center of
attention when you are leading the meeting.
No matter how interesting you think your agenda is, they will be watching you.
Maintain good eye contact just when you are making presentations and
this creates a connection with your attendees.
Hand out the agenda,
quickly walk through it so the attendees get the big picture,
and they know what to expect.
You know,
maybe you missed something that might come up so you'll want to add that in.
Ensure they understand why they are there.
The expected outcome of the meeting, the purpose,
is very important and here's a tip.
Maintain good eye contact, look for visual cues,
you know, body language, from attendees on their understanding,
interest, and if they have any questions.
Okay, now let's get down to work.
Okay, the meeting has started and let's get down to work.
Actually, it's quite easy.
Just step your way through the agenda, item by item.
Take notes as we discussed in Know Your ABC's and take very good notes,
by the way.
Be sure you can read them afterwards.
Now if you're going to be pretty busy during the meeting,
maybe you'll want to have an associate take the notes for you.
Promote active discussions.
Many times people, well, just sit there hoping not to get an assignment.
Now that isn't good.
You need their input.
You need their ideas and there buy-in, so promote active discussions like,
what do you think, Lauren?
Didn't you do something like that on the last project?
What might be our next steps?
And things like that.
So be inclusive of all attendees.
Make sure they all have a chance to ask questions or feel
okay with the decisions and commitments.
Engage your audience as we've talked, all the way around the room,
good eye contact, good exchange of information,
and end on time.
Plan accordingly.
Lastly will be the recap.
You'll want to walk through verbally all the next steps,
all the actions and commitments,
and what you're going to do with the meeting notes.
I will send them out later today and when the next meeting might be, etc.
And here's a tip.
Thank everyone for attending.
They feel real good about that.
Like, hey, thank you very much for coming,
this was so helpful; I have learned so much on this new project.
This is really going to help promote the project.
This will really get the project going forward even faster.
They will feel good, they will feel like they contributed, and they'll feel like they'll come to the next one which is good.